hello everyone and welcome to this quick
tip extend script tutorial in this
tutorial I'm gonna go over three simple
to complex script examples that I've
made in the real world to kind of show
you the breadth of what kind of jobs you
can look for if you ever get extend
script jobs making scripts or if you're
ever looking to hire someone what kind
of things are possible
of course this isn't going to cover
everything that's possible but it will
give you a general idea what kind of
automations effects and types of things
that are actually possible to modify so
this first script we're gonna take a
look at is one called ISO metrics which
I made for a client and it never ended
up getting released but essentially what
it does is it takes your footage and it
has a simple UI and it has a very simple
function you can choose to make it I
symmetrical left right or top so if you
select one it'll let you know is added
successfully and essentially what it
does is applies some various transform
effects to create this isometric effect
and then you can easily undo it and
select a different isometric effect this
is usually used for certain types of a
bit art or other types of skew art that
are required it essentially just rotates
it and makes it appear as if it's a side
on a 3d object this was a dockable
script that was very simple to write and
the functionality was pretty much just
developing some presets for the
transform effects and then integrating
those whenever you click on one of these
buttons so that's an example of a very
simple effect let's move on to something
of medium complexity which instead of
this one taking about a week maximum to
develop and finalize this one next one
took probably about three months to to
start to finish from it actually working
as intended so sometimes people have
designed templates that they want to
sort of connect with the script or their
goal is to sort of have a script
automatically generate it or use it and
quickly adjust the settings within it so
in this example I basically made a
script for this guy who had some JSON
files which he wanted to control things
like the sale price the city how many
bedrooms and such or in these house
showing videos so he sent over a
template and I linked up a script to
basically accommodate for it I goes
through and recognizes which layers are
required to be changed whether or not it
needs to change maybe this text that
says a million point five dollars or if
it needs to change the phone number or
the website it finds these specific
layers inside of the script and then it
goes through into a JSON file reads
those and then it sort of changes them
and does a bunch of other fancy stuff to
eventually render it out so as an
example with this script as it is a lot
more complicated it does require a
folder structure for these various
things that it's going to be doing it
needs the assets for the actual template
file itself that is going to be loading
up it's gonna add custom icons depending
on what kind of project you have it has
images of the house that need to be
inserted and of course it has a JSON
file which contains all of the meat of
this project basically everything that
was needed to be modified inside of this
After Effects template that was sent we
made into a template using this JSON
format this is kind of not very good
JSON convention and syntax
but it worked at the time and I just did
it this way but essentially it has all
the text information needed as well as
any file locations relative to the JSON
file that way if it needs to fetch any
assets or anything it can go in and do
all that so just based on that JSON
information I can run the script and it
will ask me do I want to render the
video I'll say yes so what its gonna do
is is opening up the template project
injecting all of those images and data
reading the JSON file updating text
doing lots of color changes all sorts of
modifications and in the end once it's
done generating this final render comp
which has a nice final output you can
see there's a there's a few noticeable
problems in this particular case but
it's looking really good and then it
goes on to load media encoder and render
it out now lastly let's look at a
complicated longer term working on
script this is a very broad range this
could be a script that is a thousand
lines of code but it's incredibly
complicated and dense with information
and things like that
or it could be an extremely white
spaced-out code with 10,000 lines this
particular script is about 3,500 lines
of code
as a custom script I developed for
production crate who I work with quite
often to make awesome scripts to help
artists improve their workflows and make
cool designs and custom effects
essentially this is a giant suite of
things all in one script allows you to
create a shape or a solid layer of any
of these shapes that are built into the
script
lots of two-dimensional options and even
three-dimensional objects which will
generate 3d shapes based on two
dimensional planes inside of your
composition and then there's even more
settings to customize like what color
you want it to be you can change the
width and the height as well as the
defaults so that you can quickly launch
the program again and just quickly do
the same thing over and over and then on
top of that it has an incredibly useful
Anchor Point utility which has a button
that will select any generated shapes
from the script and then you can easily
then with any of the layers you have
selected change their anchor point to be
any of these positions then lastly the
last cool thing that I implemented them
to the script is the ability to have
this super powerful random feature where
but we're basically you can have
randomization for the position rotation
opacity scale time in-and-out tint and
3d now not only that you can have it
randomized based on just default values
anywhere from you know zero to the width
of the comp for position or opacity
between 0 and 100 or you couldn't
specify a limit to really get precise
and randomize things like crazy and then
also has the ability to add keyframes
and the feature list is just very large
and this script took a very long time
probably about at least six months to
make but essentially it's just very cool
and it allows you to make a lot of cool
stuff very quickly and the script just
makes everything really useful so say I
generate like 11 star layers then I
spread them out in the position just a
little bit I can then just really start
messing around with things and do things
like change the color and just
completely randomized everything so
again this script is in I'd say on the
very high end of complexity anytime you
have anything you need to go in and
change you better hope you have it
really well organized so that you can
get everything changed and fixed
efficiently so there's a lot of
functions
a lot of code in here all right guys
that's gonna do it for this week's video
I hope you enjoyed
that's three practical scripting
examples from basic to advanced
complexity that I've worked on in my
life as well as just kind of the general
overview of what is possible and what
people are looking for with scripts if
you're not following us on Instagram
already make sure you do that down below
where I post updates for all the videos
coming out and cool behind the scenes
stuff leave the thumbs up on the video
if you enjoyed it hit subscribe to be
notified when new videos are coming out
and of course thanks for watching we'll
see you in the next one